# Fact-Checking-using-Knowledge-Graphs

A fact verification system is built which uses knowledge graphs to develop an efficient and accurate engine that can evaluate the authenticity of a given claim based on the available knowledge graph.

The system is able to extract relevant information from the knowledge graphs and use it to verify the claim. The evidence may be supporting or refuting the claims to classify the claim as valid or invalid.The fact verification engine takes input as claims. Based on the data in the knowledge graph, the model gives an output if the given claim is valid or false, along with evidences which can support or refute the given claim.

This is achieved by creating a knowledge graph from the FEVER (Fact Extraction and Verification) dataset, and training a model on the knowledge graph after suitable preprocessing and feature extraction.

## Dataset

The dataset used is called the FEVER (Fact extraction and Verification) Dataset 

The FEVER dataset is used for the following task as after performing literature review, it was noticed that no has created a knowledge graph from this dataset.


*   It consists of 185,445 claims generated by altering sentences extracted from Wikipedia and subsequently verified without knowledge of the sentence they were derived from.

*   The claims are classified as Supported, Refuted or NotEnoughInfo. For the first two classes, the annotators also recorded the sentence(s) forming the necessary evidence for their judgment.

Dataset Source: [Source to FEVER](https://fever.ai/dataset/fever.html)

The dataset consists of the following columns:

* id: The ID of the claim

* label: The annotated label for the claim. Can be one of SUPPORTS|REFUTES|NOT ENOUGH INFO.

* claim: The text of the claim.

* evidence: A list of evidence sets (lists of [Annotation ID, Evidence ID, Wikipedia URL, sentence ID] tuples) or a [Annotation ID, Evidence ID, null, null] tuple if the label is NOT ENOUGH INFO.

